# Quote Bot For Discord
This repository is to host a simple coding project I worked on during my summer break from my master's program, where I utilized the Discord.js node module to create a bot to output random quotes my friends and I have said to each other during our time hanging out. This project utilizes a MongoDB database to save all the quotes input by my friends and me, allowing for the data to be accessed any time we need. This is done directly in our Discord server in one of the text channels we have created. I used the Discord module to read commands input in our server, such as !addQuote or !quote, as triggers for the bot to navigate to the correct logic in the code. I also utilized a .env file, which is not saved to github, to handle more secretive information such as tokens and database passwords to protect the bot from being utilized in unintended ways.

# Takeaways
One main takeaway I have from working on this project is that you should not be afraid to refactor code when the time is right. I initially over-engineered the bot to have a backend server running that would use express routing to talk to the main bot and handle the databse calls, but I found that with the size of the project, it was an unnecessary complication and only made managing the code more of a hassle. I stuck with writing the code all in one project spread across a main file and a database file to keep it organized, but leaving it in a state where it could easily be expanded into two seperate projectes if I expand upon the main logic. 
